---
layout: post
title: Thanksgiving 2020
subtitle: What a year!
slug: thanksgiving-2020
---

My family and I didn't celebrate Thanksgiving until very recently. Japan and Spain don't have this
tradition but since our 2 kids were born here, we decided to cook a turkey like any other American
family.

This year has been estrange at best, like taken from a sci-fi novel. A pandemic has hit hard every
country on Earth, and has change the lifestyle of many of us. But humans adapt (governments do not,
but that's material for another post).

For my family, we have been extremely lucky in all aspects. Life changes due to the lockdown were
just mere inconvenience so far. And we are very aware that many families are not this lucky. So in
this short post, I'm saying thank you for all things that has happened to us during this _raro de
cojones_ year.


### The family grew

At the beginning of 2020, our second daughter was born. A bit earlier than expected but no
complications. As I write this, she's "chewing" a piece of bread like there's no tomorrow. Taking
care of a baby during the lockdown was easier than I was expecting, since for the first two months 
you are not supposed to go out often. Had a lot of time to play with our first daughter, make a
homelab, and cook. She's now 10 months old and getting ready to start walking.

It also has helped a lot to work from home. I'm spending more time with my daughters than ever
before. Without commuting, I can use that extra time to get the house a bit more organized and
clean.

We've also seen more than 40 guppies born (not all are alive, but that's life). We started a tiny
aquarium with 5 from our friend Brennan and had to expand their habitat quite a lot to make room for
colorful and sometimes bizarre fishes.

_photo of fishes_


### Mapbox's crew

I did a big transition in April. I joined Mapbox as engineering manager of their Tilesets Team. I
was worried I made a big mistake to make such a move in a year like this one. I couldn't imagine
what would be to start in a new company during a pandemic, onboard all remote in an industry that I
have 0 knowledge (maps).

But nothing bad happened. Onboarding was pretty smooth. I'm familiar with the technologies and the
most important part, the crew is fantastic. A team of 15 wonderful people ready to listen to my
rants and stupid questions about cartography and maps in general. Not all of them are using _vim_
but little by little.

Since I started, I've been learning every day about the industry, how to monetize a complex product,
how to work on different timezones, and a hundred little tricks that help me to overcome the
problems of not working in an office with peers.


### Pandemic

We have been following the COVID-19 recommendations as much as we can. We have seen some
friends and family getting infected and no serious cases around us. We are also lucky that
our community and neighbors are taking recommendations very seriously.

But at some point, we had to make some changes at home to keep sanity. Since the public
transportation wasn't (and still isn't) working well, we decided to buy a car. After 9 years living
in a US city without one, it was a good change. We found exactly the one we needed and it's
difficult to imagine what we would do now without it.

Having a car has allow us to discover many remote places in California that don't appear on the
travel webpages. And for the kids to see a bit of California's wild life. In some moments, the fires
didn't make it easy, but this state is huge. Here's a series of books that can help to explore
California: Day Hikes Around by Robert Stone.

Another big change was to find a place at home that could be my permanent office set up. The closest
space we have at home for that is a closet in our hall. I had a lot of fun setting up the ethernet,
servers, tiny "desk" (not a desk) and a chair that can't move because there's no room. The closet is
1.5 m by 1.5 m. Honestly I don't recommend it, but it's working so far. After 3 months working
there, I started to feel back, arms, hands, neck and pretty much everywhere pain.

_photo of the closet_

All this has taught us that we would need to make even bigger changes on the long run. Not just for
our kids but for our own sanity. San Francisco is a great city... if you don't have kids, or don't
need to work from home.


### Bye SF

### Segment acquisition

### Chicken recipe


---

Not all has been perfect for us this year, however positive things overweight the negative ones by
far. Thank you.
