---
layout: post
title: A tiny ETL
subtitle: Is it really Big Data™?
slug: tiny-etl
---


I've been working with databases and networks since the beginning of my career and I've seen a lot
of cool and weird stuff. It always amaze me how as engineers we can choose the complexity of our
applications and systems. A small ecomerce shop running in a server on a basement? For sure. A blog
running on Kubernetes? Of course! It needs to scale! You can see many examples out there of small
companies running cloud infrastructures that require teams and teams of engineers to maintain. And
some of them will never have more than 1k concurrent users. Microservices! Everything must be
self-contained and independent from other services (easier said than done). If you are an engineer
working on web applications, I'm sure you are familiar with this.

But what if I told you that it also happens on data pipelines? The Big Data movement (a.k.a
microservices for data) is a similar approach where every system produces huge amount of data that
needs to be processed, stored, and... probably never queried. ETL processes (transforming data) have
been part of the computing science since the very beginning, but recently we discovered how to make
them more complex, bigger scale, I mean huge scale. If we can process more data and faster (well,
sometimes), we should do it, right? My previous "me" will say a strong yes.

I was lucky enough to work at Segment for 3 years, in both their batch and streaming data pipelines.
Segment processes on average 300000 events per second (maybe this number has grown) and 1.5 million
events during peaks. These events are data represented as JSON with arbitrary number of fields. Each
event is validated, archived to S3 and sent to a warehouse or one of the Segment destinations.
While working on their warehouses product, we were able to sync 14 billion rows a day into 8000
warehouses (again, probably now is more). They handle real Big Data. 

During that period, I had the opportunity to discover how wrong I was (and learn a couple of other
things along the way).

Do you need to process a couple of millions of rows of a database?
Maybe use Spark, or event better! Implement your own solution! 50GB a day? Let's go with Hadoop.
_(This post took x hours to write. I estimate a normal human being would take 15 mins)_
