---
layout: post
title: Segment
subtitle: 3 years of learning
slug: segment
---


What a crazy week! On Friday, I got a mysterious text from one of my former coworkers
saying "congrats carlos". I thought it could be related to the recent product lunch my team did
at Mapbox, but his next text left me without words: "segment gettign acquired". My answer was a
"Wait wat????? April fools?" and from there, it snowballed. I honestly didn't know what that meant
for me, so I started to contact other Segment former employees, and I got the sense that I wasn't
the only one.

The next days were madness between emails, calls, video calls and appointments. Everyone I spoke
with was excited, every employee saw their efforts rewarded. Not every company and founders do that
for their former employees.

Now that the dust is settled, I would like to take this opportunity to list some of the lessons
Segment left on my brain for the 3 years I worked there.


### Life is more important

During my time at Segment, I had 2 daughters, my apartment "melted down" due to a fire in floor
above ours, 2 temporary moves, multiple trips everywhere (Japan, Spain, Hawaii, Switzerland, All
California, New York, and a couple of other places), a change of career and a discovery of a new
hobby as sausage maker. I was able to do that because my coworkers and the company culture let me
focus on what was important.

It's impossible to give your max at work if your life is not set the way you need it to be. Segment
and all the managers (5!) I reported on those 3 years understood that. That is a highly valuable
lesson as an engineer manager. Your team will need your help sometimes to take care of their family
and things outside of work. Your job is to make sure they have the time and enough life/work balance
to make that possible.

"We are all people before engineers." - Gerhard E.


### It's all about setting proper expectations

### Complexity is not worth it


_(This post took 2 hours to write. I estimate a normal human being would take 15 mins)_
