---
layout: post
title: Writing
subtitle: Writing is important and I'm really bad at it
slug: writing
---



_No shit Sherlock!_

I can't write. I've been trying my entire career and haven't made any progress. Well, "trying"
actually is not the word, "avoiding" might represent better what I did. If I think about the most
painful moments on my career, they weren't long nights, or tight deadlines, or complex technical
problems, they were writing and doing presentations. I still get chills when I remember when I had
the task to write the design and architectural description of a music metadata ETL for the patent
office. That was 4 years ago. I didn't want to go to work, a whole day writing? Are you nuts?
Performance reviews every 6 months for direct reports. I can discuss for hours about career plans,
but confront 8 blank docs describing the last 6 months, no way.

_(By now, I've checked Twitter 4 times. Ah that picture on the wall is so dusty... Let me adjust the chair...)_

I honestly don't know why is so difficult for me. I've always attributed to English not being my
native language, but I recall the same feeling during my student days in Spanish. I can find any
excuse that will delay focusing on writing a paragraph. I planned to write this blog post 6 years
ago, and my first impulse when I sit down today to write these words is figure out how Jekyll can
run in a Docker container. Also I've changed a couple of random stuff on the page. I could have
finish this post by now... :facepalm:

Anyway, I'm here because I want/need to improve my writing skills. So here it is.


### Why writing is important?

Well, I can't avoid it anymore. As engineer manager, you better be comfortable writing, because
you are going to do it a lot, all the time. And speaking, for hours (but that's easier to be
honest). Multiple times my managers told me to start putting my thoughts in paper, since there's
only so much that people (including myself) can retain on their brains during a meeting. I've also
got that the only way to grow is to scale up yourself, and that requires have a team aligned and
driving in the same direction. How can I do that? No idea, but I hope that writing helps.

_(I think I've stared the ceiling for 5 minutes)_

I've been lucky enough to be surrounded by people who writes really well (and a lot) like friends (hi
Wally), managers (hi Sean, Gerhard and Vartika), product managers (hi Chris, Sara, Leah, Kevin and Bersabel) and
engineers (hi Tyson and Rick). I admire how they can just open a doc and start typing. No excuses,
no procrastinating, just typing like mad people. And if you happen to know them, you know they are
quite successful on what they do.

Also, this year our lives have changed quite a lot. The lucky ones like us have seen a
transformation in the workplace from being together in the same place where you can reach easily
any coworker to a virtual-only, async-most-of-the-time environment, where communication is 10 times
more difficult. Let's be honest, this new way of work will stay with us for a while.

It makes sense to me to invest more on writing as a essential communication skill.

_(How many times do I need to go to the kitchen?)_


### The goal

I want to be able to transmit ideas on a writing format. From Slack messages to Operation Planning
docs. It will be not just useful for my career, but also for people around me. I need to recognized
that I'm way too far from that, so let's take one small step first:

I would work to create the habit of writing something every single week. That should be doable right? A
couple of hours a week writing something basic... Also want to define how I can measure progress,
since my lazy brain needs constant rewards.


### The plan

To be conservative, I'm going to write one post a week until **January 1st, 2021**:

_(Oh! Screen break!)_

1. [x] Week of October 12. Yeeey
1. [x] Week of October 19: [Segment]({% post_url 2020-10-20-segment-acquisition %})
1. [x] Week of October 26: [A good old laptop]({% post_url 2020-10-27-a-good-old-laptop %})
1. [ ] Week of November 2
1. [ ] Week of November 9
1. [ ] Week of November 16
1. [ ] Week of November 23
1. [ ] Week of November 30
1. [ ] Week of December 7
1. [ ] Week of December 14
1. [ ] Week of December 21
1. [ ] Week of December 28
1. [ ] Week of January 4

I don't really care about the content of the posts, length or style, I'm just focusing right now of
making the habit.

_(Another screen break!)_

I'll be posting updates on LinkedIn and Twitter. I'm not looking to drive traffic to this site,
just it might help me to feel accountable for a failed plan :D

Please join me on this boring and painful adventure.

_(This post took 2 hours to write. I estimate a normal human being would take 15 mins)_
