---
layout: default
slug: segment
name: Segment IO (Acquired by Twilio)
img: segment.png
start-date: February 2017
end-date: April 2020
role: Engineering Manager - Distributed Systems Engineer
category: User data pipelines
link:
    name: Segment IO
    href: https://segment.com
description: The leading Customer Data Platform
---

### As Engineering Manager

- Directing a team of 7 engineers, responsible for mobile, web and server-side integrations (more
  than 250).
- Providing support, growth and mentorship to the engineers in the team, from junior to tech leads.
- Hiring new engineers. Added 5 new engineers to the team in the last year, some of them already
  promoted to next levels.
- Shipping multi-month customer projects, coordinating Solution Architects, engineers and setting
  expectations, to make customers happy.
- Designed and a roadmap to allow the team to ship new products/features instead of spending most of
  our resources maintaining legacy services.
- Implemented a new program to include external contractors to build and maintain destinations.
  Positive ROI after first month.
- Set weekly, quarterly and yearly goals for Segment's Destinations team.
- Establish priorities and evaluate risks of our engineering projects.
- Direct the team during the process of formalizing project proposals. 


### As Software Engineer

- Improved performance of Segment's main destination router from running +10000 tasks to only 800,
  reducing operational costs and risks while deployments.
- Maintain Segment's Android integrations.
- Update our CI and test processes to increase engineering efficiency and speed.
- Helping to maintain Segment's massive AWS infrastructure (+6000 ECS tasks, +1.8PB of S3 data, +350
  production databases, +1000 EC2 instances).
- Designed and developed BigQuery and Snowflake warehouse connectors.
- As part of the Warehouses team, I was focused on design and implement the V2 of Segment's
  Warehouses product. Syncing currently more than 15 billion rows per day to +6000 warehouses.
- Paired with the success team for technical calls with our customers. 
- As side project, I optimized the warehouses dataflow, saving $300,000 a year on AWS costs.
